25 questions w/ answers from AMBOSS Qbank – Surgery Shelf (paid subscription for Step 2) 
 
1. A 29-year-old man who lives in Utah comes to the emergency department 90 minutes after 
he received a snake bite on his right leg. He was cleaning out a shed in his backyard when 
he saw a snake between two beams of wood. When he tried to kill the snake with a shovel, 
it bit him in the lower leg. He says, “I don't really remember what it looked like other than that 
it was brown; I had a few beers before I started clearing out the shed, so it's all a bit fuzzy.” 
The bite site is painful. He is nauseous and says that he feels like he is about to vomit. He 
has no significant past medical history and takes no medications. His temperature is 37.3°C 
(99.1°F), pulse is 105/min, respirations are 26/min, and blood pressure is 96/52 mm Hg. 
Cardiopulmonary examination shows no other abnormalities. Physical examination shows 
two erythematous puncture wounds with serous drainage just above the right ankle. There is 
ecchymosis and swelling across the dorsum of the right foot and the lower leg up to the mid-
shin. Active and passive range of motion of the right knee and ankle is limited by pain. 
Neurologic examination of the extremities shows no abnormalities. Which of the following is 
the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: The majority of snake bites in the US are by Crotalinae species, which are typically earth-
toned. Treatment of snake envenomation is determined by the severity of clinical 
manifestations. This patient presents with systemic features, including nausea, tachycardia, 
tachypnea, and mild hypotension, which are consistent with envenomation of moderate severity. 
 
Administration of antivenom 
69% 
Administration of antivenom is the most appropriate next step in management of a 
patient with moderate to severe envenomation by a crotaline snake. The clinical 
manifestations of envenomation are generally classified into three categories: local 
tissue effects (e.g., swelling and pain), systemic effects (e.g., tachycardia, hypotension, 
vomiting), and coagulopathic effects (e.g., hemorrhage, abnormal coagulation 
parameters). Severe cases can result in compartment syndrome, respiratory failure, life-
threatening hypotension, and significant bleeding. Antivenom therapy can slow or halt 
the progression of toxicity and is most effective when administered within 6 hours of the 
snakebite. Crotalidae polyvalent immune fab and crotalidae immune f(ab')2 are the 
antivenoms available in the United States. Patients who have received antivenom should 
be monitored for hypersensitivity (e.g., serum sickness, anaphylaxis). Additional 
management recommendations include pain control, local wound care, tetanus 
immunization, and close observation, including regular monitoring of vital signs, tissue 
swelling, and coagulation studies. 
 
Application of a tourniquet around the right lower leg 
6% 
Tourniquets and constrictive dressings are generally not recommended after a snakebite. 
Though constriction may theoretically delay venom spread through lymphatic channels, there is 
no evidence that this intervention provides any clinical benefit. Moreover, tourniquets can 
worsen local ischemia and tissue damage. Oral suction and cutting of the wound should also be 
avoided in the management of snakebite wounds, as their efficacy has not been proven. 
 
Compartment pressure measurement in the right lower leg 
13% 
Compartment syndrome is a rare complication of snakebites and typically manifests with 
pulselessness, paresthesia, pallor, and pain on passive stretch. Although this patient presents 


with limited range of motion of the right knee and ankle due to pain, he has no other symptoms 
of compartment syndrome. Direct measurement is only indicated in patients with clinical 
features of increased compartment pressure. Therefore, another step in management is more 
appropriate at this time. 
 
Hospitalization and close observation of coagulation studies over 24 hours 
11% 
Patients with dry bites (in which no envenomation occurs) or mild envenomation from crotaline 
snakes can experience localized pain and swelling and should be hospitalized for pain control, 
local wound care, and close observation, including regular monitoring of vital signs, tissue 
swelling, and coagulation studies. This patient, however, has systemic features, including 
nausea, tachycardia, tachypnea, and mild hypotension, which are consistent with envenomation 
of moderate severity. Moderate to severe envenomation requires active treatment rather than 
observation alone. 
 
Administration of neostigmine and endotracheal intubation 
1% 
Neurotoxic venom can cause neuromuscular blockade and diaphragmatic paralysis, which 
require neostigmine administration and intubation. Though some North American snakes have 
neurotoxic venom (e.g., coral snakes and some rattlesnakes), this patient does not have any 
neurologic symptoms, which makes acute neurotoxicity less likely. If he were to develop muscle 
weakness, upper airway obstruction, or significantly altered mental status, neostigmine 
administration and intubation might be indicated. However, they are not the most appropriate 
next steps in management at this time. 
 
Administration of unfractionated heparin 
1% 
Hematologic toxicity is a common effect of crotaline envenomation and typically results in 
abnormalities in coagulation parameters (e.g., prolonged prothrombin time, hypofibrinogenemia, 
thrombocytopenia), in part due to the activity of thrombin-like glycoproteins from the venom. 
These glycoproteins are not inhibited by the action of heparin, which plays no role in the 
management of crotaline envenomation and may increase the risk of bleeding. 
 
 
2. A 22-year-old man comes to the emergency department for pain and swelling of his left knee 
one day after injuring it while playing soccer. While sprinting on the field, he slipped as he 
attempted to kick the ball and landed on the anterior aspect of his knee. He underwent an 
appendectomy at the age of 16 years. His vital signs are within normal limits. Examination 
shows a swollen and tender left knee; range of motion is limited by pain. The tibial tuberosity 
shows tenderness to palpation. The left tibia is displaced posteriorly when force is applied to 
the proximal tibia after flexing the knee. The remainder of the examination shows no 
abnormalities. An x-ray of the left knee joint shows an avulsion fracture of the tibial condyle. 
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? 
 
Anterior cruciate ligament injury 
14% 
 
Lateral meniscus injury 
0% 
 
Posterior cruciate ligament injury 


84% 
Posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injuries are either noncontact injuries involving 
hyperflexion of the knee on a plantarflexed foot (most commonly seen in athletes) or 
injuries caused by a posterior blow to the flexed knee (e.g., dashboard injury, athletic 
contact injury). A positive posterior drawer sign is highly suggestive of PCL injury, and 
the diagnosis can be confirmed by MRI. Avulsion fractures are common in PCL injury. 
Isolated PCL injury can be treated conservatively; multiligament injuries and/or chronic 
symptoms typically warrant surgery. 
 
Patients with PCL injury sometimes appear to have a positive anterior drawer sign 
because the affected knee seems to have significantly more anterior movement 
compared to the unaffected knee (due to starting from a posteriorly displaced position). 
 
Lateral collateral ligament injury 
1% 
 
Medial meniscus injury 
0% 
 
Medial collateral ligament injury 
1% 
 
 
3. A 7-year-old boy is brought to the physician because of a 3-day history of fever, headache, 
earache, and sore throat that is worse when swallowing. He has not had a runny nose or 
cough. He had a similar problem 1 year ago for which he was prescribed amoxicillin, but 
after developing a skin rash, facial swelling, and dyspnea he was switched to a different 
medication. His immunizations are up-to-date. He is at the 75th percentile for height and the 
50th percentile for weight. His temperature is 38.9°C (102°F), pulse is 136/min, and 
respirations are 28/min. Examination of the oral cavity reveals a bright red tongue with 
prominent papillae, a red uvula, and an enlarged right tonsil covered by a whitish 
membrane. The deep cervical lymph nodes are enlarged and tender. Which of the following 
is the most appropriate next step in treatment? 
 
Tip: A modified Centor score of 5 (age 3–14 years, swollen tonsil with an exudate, tender 
anterior cervical lymph nodes, temperature > 100.4°F or > 38°C, and absence of cough) 
indicates a high likelihood of acute bacterial tonsillitis, which is most commonly caused by 
Streptococcus pyogenes. This patient also appears to have had a severe allergic reaction to 
amoxicillin in the past as suggested by the facial swelling (angioedema) and dyspnea. 
 
Penicillin V 
10% 
S. pyogenes is the most common cause of bacterial tonsillitis and is uniformly sensitive to 
penicillin, making penicillin V the first-line treatment. However, given this patient's history of 
allergic reaction to amoxicillin (e.g., skin rash and facial swelling), penicillin antibiotics are 
contraindicated. 
 
Total tonsillectomy 
7% 
Total tonsillectomy poses a risk of postoperative bleeding. Indications for tonsillectomy include 
chronic tonsillitis, suspected tonsillar neoplasm, obstructive sleep apnea (due to extreme 


hypertrophy of the tonsils), and multiple recent recurrences of acute tonsillitis. Total 
tonsillectomy is not a suitable initial treatment for a child with an uncomplicated disease course, 
no signs of peritonsillar abscess, and only two episodes of acute tonsillitis within a year. 
 
Subtotal tonsillectomy 
3% 
Subtotal tonsillectomy poses a risk of postoperative bleeding. Indications for tonsillectomy 
include chronic tonsillitis, suspected tonsillar neoplasm, obstructive sleep apnea (due to 
extreme hypertrophy of the tonsils), and multiple recent recurrences of acute tonsillitis. Subtotal 
tonsillectomy is not a suitable initial treatment for a child with an uncomplicated disease course, 
no signs of peritonsillar abscess, and only two episodes of acute tonsillitis within a year. 
 
Fluconazole 
2% 
The whitish membrane seen covering this patient's tonsil could be a finding of oral Candida 
infection (i.e., thrush), which is typically treated with fluconazole. However, in a healthy child 
with a fever and acute tonsillitis, this whitish membrane is more likely due to tonsillar exudates. 
Fungal infections are more common in immunosuppressed or systemically ill individuals. 
 
Clarithromycin 
56% 
This patient presents with tonsillitis that is likely due to a bacterial infection, which is 
normally treated with penicillin V. However, penicillins are contraindicated in this patient 
because of his past severe IgE-mediated allergic reaction to another penicillin antibiotic. 
Macrolides, such as clarithromycin or azithromycin, are the antibiotic of choice to treat 
acute bacterial tonsillitis in patients with a history of a severe penicillin allergy. If local 
macrolide resistance rates are high, clindamycin should be considered. Before initiating 
antibiotic therapy for suspected acute group A streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis, a rapid 
strep test should be obtained to confirm GAS infection. 
 
Cefixime 
22% 
Cefixime is a 3rd generation cephalosporin and up to 10% of patients with a penicillin allergy are 
also allergic to cephalosporins. Cephalosporins may be considered in patients with previous 
nonsevere reactions to penicillin (i.e., reactions without angioedema or anaphylaxis) but should 
not be used in patients who have had a previous severe reaction to penicillin. Moreover, when 
cephalosporins are used for the treatment of tonsillitis or pharyngitis, 1st generation 
cephalosporins (e.g., cephalexin, cefadroxil) are preferred; 3rd generation cephalosporins are 
least active among all cephalosporins against gram-positive bacteria such as S. pyogenes. 
 
 
4. A 66-year-old man comes to the office because of a 2-day history of intermittent red urine. 
He has not had flank pain, fever, dysuria, or increased urinary frequency. He has no history 
of recent trauma. Medical history is remarkable for hypertension and atrial fibrillation. His 
medications include lisinopril and warfarin. He does not smoke or drink alcohol. Temperature 
is 36.8°C (98.2°F), pulse is 72/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 137/64 
mm Hg. Abdominal examination shows no abnormalities. Digital rectal examination shows a 
smooth, normal-sized prostate without any irregularities. Laboratory studies show: 
 
Hemoglobin 
14.0 g/dL 
Prothrombin time 
48 sec (INR = 4) 


Serum  
Creatinine 
1 mg/dL 
Urine  
Blood 3+ 
Protein negative 
RBC 
too numerous to count 
WBC 2/hpf 
Casts none 
Nitrites negative 
Leukocyte esterase 
negative 
 
In addition to adjusting the patient's warfarin dosage, which of the following is the most 
appropriate next step in management? 
Tip: Painless gross hematuria is the most common manifestation of bladder cancer, so this 
patient requires a thorough diagnostic evaluation irrespective of his supratherapeutic INR. 
 
Repeat urinalysis in one week 
17% 
 
Urine culture 
1% 
 
Ultrasound of the kidneys and bladder 
19% 
 
Retrograde pyelography 
2% 
 
Cystoscopy 
61% 
Cystoscopy is indicated in any patient with gross hematuria that is not explained by UTI 
(i.e., negative nitrites and leukocyte esterase on urine dipstick) or glomerular disease 
(i.e., no proteinuria). This procedure enables direct visualization of the urethral and 
bladder mucosa with possible biopsy collection and can reliably detect malignancy or 
other sources of bleeding. Cystoscopy should be combined with CT urography for 
evaluation of the entire urinary tract. 
 
Cystoscopy is also indicated in men ≥ 40 years of age and women ≥ 50 years of age with 
microhematuria as well as in younger patients with microhematuria who have risk factors 
for urinary tract malignancy (e.g., tobacco use, cyclophosphamide treatment, prolonged 
exposure to aniline dye). 
 
 
5. A 69-year-old woman comes to the emergency department because of a 3-hour history of 
pain in her left wrist. She was cleaning a table when she slipped forward and fell onto a 
flexed hand. Medical history is remarkable for hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and 
osteoporosis. Current medications include perindopril, pitavastatin, and alendronate. She 
has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years. Examination shows warmth, 
tenderness, and edema of the left wrist. Range of motion is decreased due to pain. An x-ray 
series of the left arm shows multiple fragmentations at the distal radioulnar joint and an 


intraarticular oblique fracture with volar displacement of the distal fragment of the radius. 
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: This patient's x-ray findings of an intraarticular fracture with volar displacement of the distal 
fragment of the radius indicate a complex fracture. 
 
Internal fixation with intramedullary nailing 
13% 
 
Sling and swathe splint 
4% 
 
Closed reduction with percutaneous pinning 
14% 
 
Open reduction internal fixation 
67% 
Open reduction internal fixation (ORIF) and other forms of operative management are 
indicated for complicated distal radius fractures (i.e., comminuted, intraarticular, severely 
angulated or foreshortened, or unstable after reduction). Osteoporosis, which this 
patient has, is a risk factor for both comminuted and distal radius fractures, complicates 
management and recovery, and is an indication for ORIF. Barring the development of any 
concerning neurovascular findings (e.g., decreased sensation due to compression of the 
median nerve, absent radial pulse), uncomplicated distal radius fractures can be 
managed conservatively. 
 
Hanging-arm cast 
2% 
 
6. A 60-year-old man comes to the physician for a routine health maintenance examination. 
Over the past year, he has had problems initiating urination and the sensation of incomplete 
bladder emptying. He has a history of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. He has 
smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the past 40 years. He does not drink alcohol. His 
medications include lisinopril, atorvastatin, and daily aspirin. Vital signs are within normal 
limits. Physical examination shows a pulsatile abdominal mass at the level of the umbilicus 
and a bruit on auscultation. Digital rectal examination shows a symmetrically enlarged, 
smooth, firm, nontender prostate with rubbery texture. Laboratory studies are within normal 
limits. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: This patient has a history of smoking, hypercholesterolemia, and arterial hypertension and 
presents with a pulsatile abdominal mass and a bruit on auscultation. These features are 
suggestive of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). He does not have abdominal, back, or flank 
pain, flank ecchymoses, or signs of hemodynamic instability that would suggest rupture. 
 
CT scan of the abdomen with contrast 
18% 
CT angiography of the abdomen and pelvis is appropriate for hemodynamically stable patients 
with confirmed or suspected symptomatic AAA. This test provides a detailed assessment of the 
location, size, and extent of the aneurysm, as well as the involvement of branch vessels, 
presence of a thrombus, and/or rupture. Signs of symptomatic AAA include abdominal, back, or 
flank pain, flank ecchymoses, and signs of aortic fistula (e.g., heart failure, upper 


gastrointestinal bleeding), which this patient does not have. A different step in management is 
more appropriate for asymptomatic AAA. 
 
Catheter arteriography 
1% 
Intraoperative catheter arteriography of the aorta can be used to assess the intraluminal space 
and the presence of a leak after repair of an AAA. However, it has limited use during diagnostic 
workup, as it only assesses the aortic lumen and cannot distinguish between the vessel wall 
and a blood clot in an aneurysm (and thus cannot estimate aneurysm size). 
 
Prostate biopsy 
1% 
A prostate biopsy would be appropriate for a patient with a high suspicion for prostate cancer 
(e.g., presence of constitutional symptoms, terminal hematuria). However, this patient's urinary 
symptoms (hesitancy and incomplete voiding), in combination with a digital rectal examination 
showing a symmetrically enlarged, smooth, firm, nontender prostate with rubbery texture, are 
consistent with benign prostatic hyperplasia. This does not merit urgent management at this 
time, particularly in this patient with findings suspicious for an AAA. 
 
PSA level testing 
7% 
Elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels are a nonspecific finding in several conditions 
that affect the prostate, including prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). This 
patient's urinary symptoms (hesitancy and incomplete voiding), in combination with a digital 
rectal examination showing a symmetrically enlarged, smooth, firm, nontender prostate with 
rubbery texture, are consistent with BPH. This does not merit urgent management at this time, 
particularly in this patient with findings suspicious for an AAA. 
 
Abdominal ultrasonography 
71% 
Patients with a suspected asymptomatic AAA should undergo abdominal 
ultrasonography to confirm the diagnosis (dilatation of the aorta ≥ 3 cm) and evaluate the 
extent of disease, including location and size of the aneurysm, presence of a blood clot, 
and presence of comorbid iliac artery aneurysms. The sensitivity and specificity of 
abdominal ultrasonography for AAA are nearly 100%. After the diagnosis is established, 
management strategies depend on the risk factors for rupture (e.g., aneurysm diameter 
and rate of expansion). 
 
Renal arteriography 
2% 
Renal arteriography is the gold standard for diagnosing renal artery stenosis (RAS), which can 
also present with an abdominal bruit. However, additional clinical features include treatment-
resistant hypertension and hypokalemia (from elevated aldosterone levels) and elevated serum 
creatinine concentration, which this patient does not have. Other diagnostic methods for workup 
of RAS include renal ultrasonography, CT angiography, and MR angiography. 
 
 
7. A 23-year-old woman comes to the physician for a routine health maintenance examination. 
She reports that she feels well. Upon questioning, she mentions that she has had an 
occasional dry cough and recurrent hoarseness over the past 6 months. She does not 
smoke and has not lost weight. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory 


studies are within the reference ranges. An x-ray of the chest shows a mass that projects 
across the right hilum. A CT scan of the chest is shown. Which of the following is the most 
likely diagnosis? 
 
 
 
Tip: The CT scan shows that the mass is located in the posterior mediastinum. 
 
Esophageal cancer 
14% 
Esophageal cancer often manifests as a middle and/or posterior mediastinal mass. Affected 
patients typically present with dysphagia and weight loss; hoarseness would be uncommon. In 
addition, esophageal cancer usually manifests in middle to late adulthood (45–75 years old) 
rather than young adulthood. 
 
Thymoma 
39% 
Although a thymoma may manifest with cough due to mass effect, it develops in the anterior 
mediastinum. This patient's signs are confined to the posterior mediastinum. 
 
Neurofibroma 
24% 
Neurogenic tumors (e.g., neurofibromas and schwannomas) account for the majority of 
posterior mediastinal masses (∼ 60%). Intrathoracic neurofibromas usually manifest in 
young adults (20–30 years), typically with chest pain caused by mass effect upon the 
chest wall. Although neurofibromas are benign, large masses can cause a dry cough 
(due to compression of the lung), hoarseness (due to compression of the recurrent 
laryngeal nerve), or dysphagia (due to compression of the vagus nerve). As in this case, 
constitutional symptoms (i.e., fever and weight loss) are usually absent and laboratory 
studies are typically normal. 
 
Teratoma 
15% 
Teratomas are benign germ cell tumors that are usually asymptomatic but can cause cough due 
to mass effect. Unlike here, they are generally found in the anterior mediastinum and have CT 
findings of a heterogeneous mass containing multiple tissue types (e.g., fat, fluid, bone). 
 
Aortic aneurysm 
7% 


Intrathoracic cardiovascular structural anomalies (e.g., aortic aneurysm, pulmonary artery 
aneurysm, or vascular ring) usually manifest as masses in the middle and/or posterior 
mediastinum. Aortic aneurysm usually manifests as left-sided masses, not the right-sided mass 
seen in this case. In addition, while aortic aneurysms are better visualized on contrast-enhanced 
chest CT, the mass in this patient is clearly visualized as a separate entity from the intrathoracic 
aorta. 
 
 
8. A 10-month-old boy is brought to the physician by his mother because of a 1-week history of 
a painless bulge in the right groin. His mother says that the bulge is only intermittently visible 
and increases in size with coughing. He was born via cesarean delivery at 32 weeks' 
gestation because of premature rupture of membranes. He has no history of serious illness 
and receives no medications. He appears well. Growth and development are appropriate for 
age. He is at the 50th percentile for length and weight. Temperature is 37.1°C (98.8°F), 
pulse is 130/min, and respirations are 40/min. Physical examination shows a 2 x 2-cm 
nontender right inguinal mass that is manually reducible with gradual pressure. 
Ultrasonography of the groin in supine position shows widening of the deep inguinal ring. 
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: An intermittent inguinal mass that increases in size with raised intraabdominal pressure is 
characteristic of an indirect inguinal hernia. 
 
Hospital admission for immediate surgery 
2% 
 
Parental training on manual reduction 
10% 
 
Referral to a pediatric surgeon 
40% 
 
Surgical repair is indicated in all children with inguinal hernia. In asymptomatic patients, 
surgery should be performed within 14 days of diagnosis to avoid complications (e.g., 
incarcerated hernia). Therefore, emergency surgery is not required but referral should be 
obtained promptly. While waiting for elective surgery, parental training on signs and 
symptoms of incarceration is important because an incarcerated or strangulated hernia 
requires immediate action. 
 
Indirect inguinal hernias are most common among male infants and infants who are born 
prematurely, as they mostly result from incomplete obliteration of the processus 
vaginalis during fetal development. Some hernias, despite being present since birth, do 
not become symptomatic until adulthood. 
 
MRI of the abdomen and pelvis 
2% 
 
Reassurance and follow-up only 
45% 
 
9. Two weeks after undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery for acute myocardial infarction, 
a 62-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 4-day history of fever, sharp chest 


pain, and progressive fatigue. Initially, the pain was only present when he was lying supine, 
but now it is constant and only subsides when he leans forward. He has hypertension and 
mild mitral regurgitation. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 44 years but quit 
prior to surgery. Current medications include aspirin, clopidogrel, metoprolol, captopril, and 
atorvastatin. His temperature is 38.3°C (102°F), pulse is 84/min and regular, respirations are 
16/min, and blood pressure is 132/86 mm Hg. During inspiration, the patient's blood 
pressure drops to 117/80 mm Hg. On physical examination, there are jugular venous 
pulsations 4 cm above the sternal angle. Heart sounds are faint. There is 2+ edema in the 
lower extremities. Which of the following additional findings is most likely to be present in 
this patient? 
 
This patient's presentation of fatigue, fever, and chest pain that is relieved by leaning forward 
two weeks after cardiothoracic surgery indicates postpericardiotomy syndrome. This syndrome 
can be complicated by pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade. 
 
Increased mean aortic pressure 
2% 
 
Left ventricular volume overload 
7% 
 
Increased right ventricular compliance 
3% 
 
Decreased left ventricular preload 
63% 
Postpericardiotomy syndrome typically manifests 1–6 weeks after cardiothoracic surgery 
as a result of an autoimmune inflammatory process in the pericardium. This syndrome 
may be accompanied by pericardial effusion, which can lead to cardiac tamponade, 
manifesting with muffled heart sounds and pulsus paradoxus. Fluid accumulation in the 
pericardial space leads to compression of the heart (especially the right ventricle 
because of its thin wall). This compression results in a shift of the interventricular 
septum toward the left ventricle and impaired left ventricular diastolic filling (decreased 
preload). Cardiac output subsequently decreases and symptoms of backward heart 
failure (e.g., peripheral edema and jugular venous distension due to right-sided heart 
failure) and forward heart failure (e.g., progressive fatigue) develop. 
 
Pericardial effusion causing cardiac tamponade is a life-threatening condition that 
requires drainage of the pericardial fluid (e.g., using pericardiocentesis). 
 
Decreased pressure in the pericardial space 
2% 
 
Decreased right ventricular contractility 
22% 
 
10. Six days after being admitted to the hospital for cholecystectomy, a 56-year-old woman has 
high-grade fevers, chills, malaise, and generalized weakness. She has been hospitalized 
twice in the last year for acute cholecystitis. She had a molar extraction around 2 weeks 
ago. Her last colonoscopy was 8 months ago and showed a benign polyp that was removed. 
She has mitral valve prolapse, hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis, and hypothyroidism. 


Current medications include metformin, rituximab, levothyroxine, and enalapril. Her 
temperature is 38.3°C (101°F), pulse is 112/min, and blood pressure is 138/90 mm Hg. 
Examination shows painless macules over her palms and soles and linear hemorrhages 
under her nail beds. The lungs are clear to auscultation. There is a grade 3/6 systolic 
murmur heard best at the apex. Blood is drawn and she is started on intravenous antibiotic 
therapy. Two sets of blood cultures grow coagulase-negative staphylococci. 
Echocardiography shows a large oscillating vegetation on the mitral valve and moderate 
mitral regurgitation. Which of the following is the strongest predisposing factor for this 
patient's condition? 
 
Tip: Acute onset of high-grade fever, chills, splinter hemorrhages, and Janeway lesions 
(painless macules on palms and soles) in combination with a valvular vegetation on 
echocardiography and two positive blood cultures suggest acute infective endocarditis (IE). The 
coagulase-negative Staphylococcus species most commonly associated with IE is 
Staphylococcus epidermidis. 
 
Predamaged heart valve 
49% 
Individuals with predamaged heart valves (e.g., mitral valve prolapse) are at increased risk for 
developing IE. However, the organisms most commonly associated with IE in predamaged 
valves are viridans streptococci, which are gram-positive streptococci. Viridans streptococci 
typically cause subacute IE, which is characterized by a slow progression (weeks to months) 
and less severe constitutional symptoms (e.g., low fever may occur but is often absent). 
 
Colonic polyp 
1% 
A colonic polyp may be benign or malignant. Malignant colonic polyps can develop into colon 
cancer. IE due to an infection with Streptococcus gallolyticus (formerly known as Streptococcus 
bovis biotype I, a group D Streptococci) is associated with an increased incidence of colonic 
neoplasms. However, this patient had coagulase-negative staphylococci in her blood cultures 
and a colonoscopy 8 months ago showed a benign polyp, all of which make this risk factor 
unlikely. 
 
Recent dental procedure 
21% 
Dental procedures are an important risk factor for subacute IE, especially in patients with 
predamaged native valves (mainly the mitral valve) and in patients with prosthetic valves (≥ 60 
days after surgery). The most common pathogens in subacute IE are viridans streptococci 
(gram-positive streptococci), a common commensal of the oropharynx. Subacute IE has an 
insidious onset, is characterized by slow progression (weeks to months), and has less severe 
constitutional symptoms (e.g., low fever may occur but is often absent). Although this patient 
has a history of a predamaged native valve (mitral valve prolapse), she presents with acute IE 
and has severe symptoms, which make the diagnosis of subacute IE due to an infection with 
viridans streptococci unlikely. 
 
Immunosuppression 
4% 
Immunosuppression is an important risk factor for IE, particularly with atypical pathogens such 
as Candida species and Aspergillus fumigatus. This patient takes rituximab, which is in fact 
considered an immunosuppressive medication. IE caused by Candida species and Aspergillus 
fumigatus occurs especially following cardiosurgical interventions. However, infection with 


coagulase-negative staphylococci, as in this patient, is more often associated with a different 
risk factor than immunosuppression. 
 
Infected peripheral venous catheter 
25% 
This patient with acute IE has most likely acquired S. epidermidis bacteremia through an 
infected peripheral venous catheter during her hospital stay. S. epidermidis has the 
ability to adhere to foreign bodies (e.g., intravenous catheters, pacemakers) and 
subsequently form a biofilm. The pathogen accounts for about 30% of health care-
associated bloodstream infections and is a common cause of IE in patients with 
prosthetic heart valves (see “Pathogens causing infective endocarditis” table). 
 
Because coagulase-negative staphylococci often colonize the skin of healthy individuals, 
they are commonly found in contaminated blood cultures, and their presence is not 
always clinically significant. Repeat cultures and evaluation of the culture results in 
accordance with clinical findings are therefore recommended. 
 
11. Two weeks after undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplant for multiple myeloma, a 55-year-
old man develops a severely pruritic rash, abdominal cramps, and profuse diarrhea. He 
appears lethargic. Physical examination shows yellow sclerae. There is a generalized 
maculopapular rash on his face, trunk, and lower extremities, and desquamation of both 
soles. His serum alanine aminotransferase is 115 U/L, serum aspartate aminotransferase is 
97 U/L, and serum total bilirubin is 2.7 mg/dL. Which of the following is the most likely 
underlying cause of this patient's condition? 
 
Tip: This patient developed a desquamating pruritic rash, diarrhea with abdominal cramping, 
and evidence of liver damage (scleral jaundice, elevated transaminases) shortly after a stem 
cell transplantation, which is concerning for graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). 
 
Donor T cells in the graft 
61% 
During allogeneic stem cell transplantation, donor T cells can perceive host tissue as a 
foreign antigen and mount an immune response, resulting in acute GvHD within 100 days 
of transplantation. It commonly affects the skin, mucosa, liver, and intestine; thus, 
patients present with maculopapular rash, diarrhea, jaundice, and hepatosplenomegaly, 
as observed in this patient. 
 
Newly formed anti-HLA antibodies 
12% 
Newly formed anti-HLA antibodies mediate a humoral immune response in acute graft rejection. 
Antigen-antibody complexes activate the complement cascade, which mediates tissue injury; 
hence, complement fragments (C4d) can be observed upon graft tissue staining. Patients with 
acute graft rejection present with fever, pain in the graft region, and graft vessel vasculitis within 
6 months of transplantation. Although this patient presented within 2 weeks of transplantation, 
he has involvement of intestine, liver, and skin, making acute graft rejection unlikely. 
 
Proliferating transplanted B cells 
4% 
Although proliferating transplanted B cells have been shown to have a role in chronic GvHD in 
studies with animal models, its role in patients with allogeneic stem cell transplantation is not 
well defined. Chronic GvHD is observed 100 days after transplantation and presents with clinical 


features of chronic enteritis, chronic sicca syndrome, bronchiolitis obliterans, liver dysfunction, 
and polymyositis. 
 
Activated recipient T cells 
18% 
Exposure to graft MHC alloantigen can activate recipient T cells, which orchestrates a type 4 
hypersensitivity reaction (cell-mediated immune response), that develops into acute graft 
rejection within weeks to months. Patients present with fever, graft tissue swelling, generalized 
deterioration, and lymphocytic infiltration of graft vessels; although this patient presented within 
2 weeks of transplantation, his symptoms are not confined to the transplanted tissue. 
 
Preformed cytotoxic anti-HLA antibodies 
6% 
Preformed cytotoxic anti-HLA antibodies react to graft class 1 HLA antigen and mediate 
hyperacute graft rejection, which is commonly seen in cases with donor recipient ABO 
incompatibility. Antigen-antibody complexes activate the complement system (type 2 
hypersensitivity reaction), leading to thrombus formation and graft ischemia. Patients present 
with intraoperative graft swelling and can develop systemic inflammatory response syndrome 
within minutes to hours, unlike this patient who presented 2 weeks after transplantation with 
maculopapular rash, diarrhea, and features of liver injury. 
 
12. A 42-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of a 1-week history of 
palpitations and tingling in his hands. He has also had severe cramping in his hands, feet, 
and abdomen during this period. Three months ago, he was hospitalized for acute 
pancreatitis. He discharged himself against medical advice at that time. There is no family 
history of illness. He does not smoke. He drinks two to three beers and a pint of vodka daily. 
He has a history of using intravenous heroin. He is only oriented to place and person. 
Temperature is 37.1°C (98.8°F), pulse is 90/min, and blood pressure is 110/96 mm Hg. 
There is a carpopedal spasm while measuring his blood pressure. Cardiopulmonary 
examination shows no abnormalities. Deep tendon reflexes are 4+ bilaterally. Neurologic 
examination shows no focal findings. Which of the following is the most appropriate 
pharmacotherapy? 
 
Tip: The presence of paresthesias, muscle cramps, and Trousseau sign is highly suggestive of 
hypocalcemia. 
 
Sodium bicarbonate 
12% 
Sodium bicarbonate is the antidote for overdose from barbiturates, salicylates, and tricyclic 
antidepressants, among other drugs. It works by alkalizing the urine and enhancing the 
excretion of these substances. Barbiturate overdose manifests with respiratory depression and 
a decreased level of consciousness. The overdose of salicylates causes tinnitus, 
hyperventilation, vomiting, and abdominal pain. Tricyclic antidepressant overdose causes an 
anticholinergic toxidrome with fever, mydriasis, confusion, and tachycardia. This patient's 
presentation is inconsistent with any of these overdoses. 
 
Lorazepam 
7% 
Benzodiazepines such as lorazepam are used to treat alcohol withdrawal. This patient may 
have a history of excessive alcohol intake, but he does not currently have any symptoms of 


alcohol withdrawal such as anxiety, diaphoresis, tachycardia, tremors, hallucinations, or 
seizures. 
 
Magnesium sulfate 
53% 
Chronic heavy alcohol use is associated with increased excretion of magnesium with 
urine and is one of the most common causes of hypomagnesemia-induced 
hypocalcemia. Because magnesium plays an important role in the production and 
release of PTH, patients with hypomagnesemia develop decreased levels of, and tissue 
resistance to PTH, both of which result in hypocalcemia. Therefore, patients with 
hypomagnesemia-induced hypocalcemia require magnesium supplementation before 
calcium replacement therapy can be initiated. 
 
Fomepizole 
3% 
Fomepizole is used to treat alcohol intoxication, particularly for toxic alcohols such as ethylene 
glycol or methanol. This patient does not present with classic symptoms of alcohol intoxication 
such as slurred speech, nausea and vomiting, flushed skin, confusion, or ataxia. 
 
Naloxone 
1% 
Naloxone is used to treat opioid overdose. While this patient does have a history of intravenous 
heroin use, he does not currently have any signs of opioid overdose (i.e., miosis, respiratory 
depression, or decreased level of consciousness). 
 
Thiamine 
24% 
Thiamine is used to treat Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome caused by long-standing vitamin B1 
deficiency. This patient is only oriented to place and person, but further symptoms associated 
with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome are missing, such as ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, or 
confabulations. 
 
13. A 65-year-old man is admitted to the hospital for elective surgical repair of a right-sided 
inguinal hernia. His medical history is remarkable for hypertension and colorectal carcinoma, 
for which he underwent right-sided hemicolectomy 7 years ago. His medications are 
metoprolol and lisinopril. Physical examination shows a soft and reducible mass in the 
patient's right inguinal region and a well-healed midline scar. The patient is scheduled for an 
open hernioplasty on the next day. The attending surgeon who will perform the procedure 
expects no significant complications. A fourth-year medical student who is on rotation in the 
surgical ward asks if she may scrub in and participate as a second assistant in the 
procedure. She has sufficient experience in the operating room from previous clerkships. 
Which of the following is the most appropriate action by the attending surgeon? 
Tip: Student participation in patient care is an important method for developing critical 
competencies (e.g., empathy, clinical thinking, patient management). 
 
Allow the student to observe the procedure only 
3% 
 
Allow the student to participate under supervision 
7% 
 


Introduce the student as a colleague and inform the patient about her participation in the 
procedure 
5% 
 
Ask the student to inform the patient about her participation in the procedure 
5% 
 
Disclose the student’s identity and training status to the patient and ask for consent 
80% 
 
Before surgery, a patient (or their surrogate) should be briefed about the risks, benefits, 
and alternatives to the procedure and authorize the plan. A physician should balance 
their responsibility to train medical students with their obligation to provide optimal care 
(nonmaleficence) while upholding the rights of the patient (autonomy). If a student 
wishes to assist in surgery, the attending surgeon should inform the patient about the 
student's identity and level of training, and the patient must give informed consent for 
participation. As with any other decision, the patient has the right to refuse student 
involvement in their care at any time. 
 
14. A 73-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 4-kg (9-lb) weight loss over the last 
month. During this time he has not been able to eat more than one bite without coughing 
immediately and sometimes he regurgitates food through his nose. His symptoms are worse 
with liquids. One month ago he had a stroke in the right middle cerebral artery. He has a 
history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and hyperlipidemia. Current medications 
include aspirin, amlodipine, metformin, and simvastatin. Examination of the oropharynx, 
chest, and abdomen shows no abnormalities. Neurological examination shows facial 
drooping on the left and decreased strength in the left upper and lower extremities. Which of 
the following is the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: Dysphagia early in the swallowing process that worsens with liquids, coughing, and nasal 
regurgitation indicate oropharyngeal dysphagia. Oropharyngeal dysphagia commonly affects 
patients with neuromuscular dysfunction, such as this patient who recently had a stroke. 
 
Videofluoroscopy 
43% 
A videofluoroscopic modified barium swallow is considered the test of choice for 
evaluating oropharyngeal dysphagia. It involves direct visualization of the entire 
swallowing process using continuous x-rays and barium contrast. This diagnostic test 
evaluates the patient's risk of aspiration and determines whether the patient might 
benefit from supervised feedings, swallow rehabilitation therapy, and/or enteral nutrition. 
 
CT scan of the neck 
3% 
 
Esophagram 
15% 
 
Esophageal manometry 
23% 
 
Transnasal laryngoscopy 


4% 
 
Upper endoscopy 
12% 
 
15. A 73-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of a 2-day history of 
diffuse abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. She has hypertension, congestive heart 
failure, atrial fibrillation, and osteoarthritis. She underwent an exploratory laparotomy for an 
ovarian mass a year ago where a mucinous cystadenoma was excised. Her medications 
include aspirin, nifedipine, lisinopril, metoprolol, warfarin, and acetaminophen as needed for 
pain. She does not drink alcohol or smoke cigarettes. She appears ill and disoriented. Her 
temperature is 37.9°C (100.3°F), pulse is 110/min and irregular, respirations are 16/min, and 
blood pressure is 102/60 mm Hg. Examination shows diffuse tenderness to palpation of the 
abdomen. The abdomen is tympanitic on percussion. Bowel sounds are hyperactive. The 
lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. There is a soft crescendo-decrescendo murmur 
best auscultated in the right second intercostal space. Laboratory studies show: 
 
Hemoglobin 
10.2 g/dL 
Leukocyte count 
14,000/mm3 
Platelet count 130,000/mm3 
Prothrombin time 
38 seconds 
INR 
3.2 
Serum  
Na+ 
132 mEq/dL 
K+ 
3.6 mEq/dL 
Cl- 
102 mEq/dL 
HCO3- 19 mEq/dL 
Urea nitrogen 44 mg/dl 
Creatinine 
2.1 mg/dL 
Lactate 
2.8 mEq/dL (N= 0.5–2.2 mEq/dL) 
 
An x-ray of the abdomen shows multiple centrally located dilated loops of gas-filled bowel. 
There is no free air under the diaphragm. A nasogastric tube is inserted and IV fluids and 
empiric antibiotic therapy are started. An emergency exploratory laparotomy is planned. Which 
of the following is the next best step in management? 
 
Tip: Diffuse abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, abdominal tenderness, hyperactive bowel 
sounds, elevated serum lactate, leukocytosis, prerenal kidney injury, and multiple loops of gas-
filled bowel on x-ray are consistent with small bowel obstruction with possible bowel ischemia. 
Although this patient requires immediate surgery, she has an increased bleeding risk, as 
indicated by prolonged prothrombin time (PT) and elevated INR. 
 
Administer low molecular weight heparin 
10% 
Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) should not be administered in this patient, as she is 
already over-anticoagulated with an elevated INR of 3.2 from warfarin therapy. The priority is to 
reverse her anticoagulation before the emergency surgery to reduce the risk of bleeding. 
Additionally, LMWH should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function, such 
as this patient with a creatinine level of 2.1 mg/dL, since renal impairment decreases LMWH 
clearance and further increases the risk of bleeding. 
 


Administer unfractionated heparin 
7% 
Unfractionated heparin (UFH) is commonly used for risk reduction of peri- and postoperative 
thrombotic events. However, this patient is currently on oral anticoagulation with warfarin and 
has a higher risk of excessive bleeding during surgery than thrombotic events. Treatment with 
UFH perioperatively would further increase the risk of bleeding in this patient. UFH can be 
administered postoperatively until therapeutic anticoagulation is resumed and on target level. 
 
Administer protamine sulfate 
4% 
Protamine sulfate is used for heparin neutralization and low molecular weight heparin overdose. 
This patient's history and laboratory studies, do not suggest heparin use as a reason for her 
impaired coagulation; protamine sulfate would not be indicated. 
 
Administer vitamin K 
14% 
Administration of vitamin K is used to prevent and treat hypoprothrombinemia caused by vitamin 
K antagonists such as warfarin. Although this patient requires immediate reversal of her 
anticoagulation in order to undergo surgery, the effect of vitamin K takes at least 1–2 hours with 
a peak after 12–24 hours if administered intravenously, and even longer if administered orally. 
Therefore, vitamin K alone would not be the appropriate therapy for this patient. 
 
Administer prothrombin complex concentrate and vitamin K 
59% 
Prothrombin complex concentrate and vitamin K can both be used for anticoagulation 
reversal in patients with decreased vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors (factors II, 
VII, IX, and X), e.g., due to warfarin intake. Administration of vitamin K alone would be 
insufficient, as it takes hours to days to produce further coagulation factors and take full 
effect. Additional administration of prothrombin complex concentrate is therefore 
indicated as it replaces those coagulation factors needed to immediately establish 
sufficient coagulation for surgery. 
 
After surgery, this patient requires anticoagulant treatment to decrease her thrombotic 
risk. In this patient with reduced renal function, administering unfractionated heparin 
would be appropriate. 
 
Administer platelet concentrate 
3% 
Platelet concentrate can be administered either therapeutically to treat active bleeding or 
prophylactically to prevent active bleeding in patients with thrombocytopenia. Indications include 
actively bleeding patients or a platelet count of < 50,000/mm3 for major surgeries, or < 
100,000/mm3 for neurosurgical procedures. Because this patient's laboratory studies reveal 
only slight thrombocytopenia with a platelet count of 130,000/mm3, platelet concentrates are not 
indicated. 
 
Administer recombinant activated factor VII 
3% 
Recombinant activated factor VII is used in patients with isolated factor VII deficiency. In other 
patients, administration of recombinant activated factor VII should be avoided because of the 
significant risk of arterial thrombosis. This patient's history suggests warfarin therapy and not 
factor VII deficiency as the cause of her impaired coagulation. 


 
16. A 69-year-old man comes to the physician because of progressive difficulty swallowing and 
a 5-kg (11-lb) weight loss over the past 3 months. He first had trouble swallowing solid foods 
and then also developed difficulty swallowing liquids over the past week. Endoscopy shows 
a large mass 3 cm proximal to the esophagogastric junction. Biopsy of the mass shows 
significant distortion of glandular architecture. Which of the following is the strongest 
predisposing factor for this patient's condition? 
 
Tip: Visualization of a mass in the distal third of the esophagus with histopathologic examination 
that shows distorted glandular architecture confirms a diagnosis of esophageal 
adenocarcinoma. 
 
Atrophic gastritis 
22% 
Atrophic gastritis increases the risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (eSCC). Bacterial 
overgrowth in the achlorhydric stomach generates reactive carcinogenic nitrogen products that 
can induce eSCC transformation. Although eSCC manifests with dysphagia and weight loss, as 
seen in this patient, a biopsy would show pathognomonic circular areas of keratinization. 
Atrophic gastritis is not associated with an increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma. 
 
Consumption of hot liquids 
12% 
Chronic consumption of hot liquids and food increases the risk of esophageal squamous cell 
carcinoma (eSCC) due to thermal damage of the esophageal mucosa. The resulting 
inflammation stimulates the production of reactive nitrogen species, which are carcinogenic. 
Although eSCC manifests with dysphagia and weight loss, as seen in this patient, a biopsy 
would show pathognomonic circular areas of keratinization. Consumption of hot liquids is not 
associated with an increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma. 
 
Chronic alcohol use 
33% 
Chronic and excessive alcohol consumption increases the risk of esophageal squamous cell 
carcinoma (eSCC). Although eSCC manifests with dysphagia and weight loss, as seen in this 
patient, biopsy findings would show pathognomonic circular areas of keratinization. While 
chronic alcohol use can cause gastroesophageal reflux disease, alcohol consumption has not 
been associated with an increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Moreover, another 
predisposing factor is more strongly associated with an increased risk of esophageal 
adenocarcinoma. 
 
Visceral obesity 
26% 
Obesity is an important risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma. Although the exact 
mechanism is unknown, it is hypothesized that obesity increases the risk of 
adenocarcinoma by increasing the risk of reflux and via mechanisms independent of 
reflux. Gastroesophageal reflux disease induces metaplasia (Barrett esophagus), which 
can progress to adenocarcinoma. In addition, excessive visceral fat increases the risk of 
inflammation, the production of cytokines and growth factors, and insulin resistance, all 
of which are risk factors for carcinoma. Other risk factors for esophageal 
adenocarcinoma include smoking, achalasia, and certain diets (high in animal protein or 
cholesterol, low in fiber). Smoking and achalasia furthermore increase the risk of 
esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 


 
Consumption of cured meats 
7% 
Chronic consumption of nitrosamine-rich foods (e.g., bacon, other cured meats, pickles, alcohol) 
is associated with an increased risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (eSCC). Although 
eSCC manifests with dysphagia and weight loss, as seen in this patient, a biopsy would show 
pathognomonic circular areas of keratinization. Consumption of cured meats is not associated 
with an increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma. 
 
17. A 72-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of severe, acute, right leg 
pain for 2 hours. The patient's symptoms started suddenly while he was doing household 
chores. He has no history of leg pain at rest or with exertion. He has hypertension treated 
with ramipril. He appears uncomfortable. His temperature is 37.4°C (99.3°F), pulse is 
105/min and irregular, and blood pressure is 146/92 mm Hg. The right lower extremity is 
cool and tender to touch. A photograph of the limb is shown. Femoral pulses are palpable 
bilaterally; popliteal and pedal pulses are decreased on the right side. Sensation to pinprick 
and light touch and muscle strength are decreased in the right lower extremity. Which of the 
following is most likely to have shown the underlying cause prior to the onset of this patient's 
current symptoms? 
 
 
 
Tip: Pain, pallor, pulselessness, paralysis, paresthesia, and poikilothermia (6 Ps) are hallmarks 
of acute limb ischemia (ALI). 
 
Gadolinium-enhanced MRA of the legs 
3% 
Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the legs is a confirmatory test 
for ALI and is useful for identifying arterial thrombi and dissections as an underlying etiology of 
ALI. It would not, however, help to confirm the most likely underlying source of this patient's ALI. 
 
Echocardiography 
41% 
Echocardiography can be used to visualize an atrial thrombus, which can develop as a 
complication of atrial fibrillation (Afib). This patient's irregular pulse is suggestive of Afib. 
The atrial thrombus (or parts of it) may dislodge and embolize into the systemic 
circulation, thereby leading to arterial occlusion and subsequent ischemia. The most 
common location of arterial occlusion due to arterial embolism is the femoropopliteal 
artery. 


ALI is commonly caused by thrombosis secondary to peripheral artery disease (PAD); 
however, the absence of preexisting claudication in this case makes PAD a less likely 
diagnosis. 
 
Doppler ultrasonography of the legs 
17% 
Doppler ultrasonography of the legs is the best initial test for detecting arterial and venous 
thrombosis and assessing the severity of ALI. It would not, however, help to confirm the most 
likely underlying cause of this patient's current symptoms. 
 
Digital subtraction angiography 
10% 
Digital subtraction angiogram (DSA) is an imaging modality used to diagnose ALI. It should only 
be performed if treatment can be delayed for further imaging without posing a threat to the 
extremity. DSA is useful for identifying arterial occlusions or dissections as an underlying 
etiology of ALI and facilitates immediate therapeutic intervention, e.g., catheter-directed 
thrombolysis. DSA would not, however, help to confirm the most likely underlying source of this 
patient's ALI. 
 
Manometry of the right leg 
1% 
Needle manometry of the limb is the diagnostic test of choice for suspected compartment 
syndrome, which typically occurs secondary to trauma (e.g., expanding hematoma, closed 
fracture, crush injury) and leads to extrinsic compression of the arteries. Symptoms (the 6 Ps) 
are difficult to distinguish from those caused by acute intraluminal occlusion of an artery. 
However, manometry would not help to identify the underlying etiology of ALI. 
 
Ankle-brachial index 
28% 
The ankle-brachial index is primarily used to diagnose peripheral artery disease (PAD), but it is 
also used to assess ALI. Values < 0.4 indicate severe occlusion and ischemia. This patient has 
no history of claudication or trophic changes to his lower extremities, making PAD unlikely. 
Although this test quantifies the severity of arterial occlusion in ALI, it does not help to confirm 
the underlying etiology. 
 
18. Three days after undergoing an open cholecystectomy, a 76-year-old man is evaluated for 
confusion and fever. He has hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease. He smoked 1 pack of cigarettes daily for 40 years but quit 1 year ago. 
He does not drink alcohol. Prior to admission to the hospital, his medications included 
lisinopril, metformin, and ipratropium. He appears acutely ill and lethargic. His temperature is 
39.5°C (103.1°F), pulse is 108/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 110/84 
mm Hg. He is oriented to person but not to place and time. Examination shows a 10-cm 
subcostal incision that appears dry and mildly erythematous; there is tenderness to 
palpation of the lower abdomen without guarding or rebound. Pulmonary examination shows 
scattered expiratory wheezing throughout both lung fields and no crackles. The remainder of 
the physical examination shows no abnormalities. A urinary catheter is in place and urine 
output is normal. Which of the following is most likely to establish the diagnosis? 
 
Tip: Fever, altered mental status, tachycardia, and tachypnea raise concern for postoperative 
sepsis. Certain postoperative measures that help to prevent sepsis may have been missed in 
this patient. 


 
Wound swab for Gram stain and culture 
8% 
A wound swab for Gram stain and culture is used to diagnose incisional surgical site infection 
(SSI), which can cause postoperative fever and sepsis. Manifestations of SSI include localized 
swelling, tenderness, erythema, and purulent discharge from the incision, whereas this patient's 
surgical wound is dry and only mildly erythematous. Moreover, SSI is uncommon during the first 
four days after surgery. 
 
Chest x-ray 
22% 
Pneumonia, which can be diagnosed on chest x-ray, is a common cause of early postoperative 
fever and the most common source of sepsis. However, this patient does not have further 
features of pneumonia, such as productive cough, dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, and typical 
auscultation findings (e.g., decreased breath sounds, crackles). The scattered bilateral 
wheezing is likely related to his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. While underlying 
pneumonia cannot be definitively ruled out, it is not the most likely cause of sepsis in this case. 
 
Peritoneal fluid analysis 
7% 
Peritoneal fluid analysis can be used to diagnose biliary leak following cholecystectomy. Biliary 
leak can manifest with abdominal discomfort and fever, but jaundice, nausea, and vomiting are 
also typically seen. If secondary bacterial peritonitis develops, patients present with signs and 
symptoms of sepsis; however, peritoneal signs such as rebound tenderness and/or guarding are 
also expected. Diagnosis of postoperative biliary leak is usually established with imaging (e.g., 
CT abdomen, HIDA scan) rather than peritoneal fluid analysis alone. Finally, biliary leak is a 
typical complication of laparoscopic rather than open cholecystectomy. 
 
Urine culture 
50% 
Catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs) are a common cause of 
postoperative fever and sepsis in patients with indwelling urinary catheters. Symptoms 
are often nonspecific (e.g., fever, altered mental status, lower abdominal pain), 
particularly in older patients. Urine culture as well as two sets of blood cultures should 
ideally be obtained before initiating empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy (e.g., 
imipenem plus vancomycin) in order to identify the causative organism and determine 
antibiotic susceptibility. This patient's qSOFA score of 2 (respiratory rate ≥ 22/min and 
altered mental status) indicates that he is at high risk of in-hospital mortality due to 
sepsis and should be admitted to the intensive care unit. Complete evaluation for organ 
dysfunction, continuous cardiac and respiratory monitoring, as well as frequent 
reassessments of hemodynamic parameters and serial serum lactate, are indicated. 
In patients undergoing surgery not involving the urinary tract, urinary catheters should 
be removed as soon as possible to prevent CAUTIs, preferably within 24 hours 
postoperatively. 
 
Abdominal CT 
14% 
Abdominal CT scan can be used to diagnose postoperative complications such as organ or 
space surgical site infection (e.g., intraabdominal abscess) and biliary leak. While an abscess 
can manifest with fever and abdominal pain, the tenderness is usually located in the region 
where surgery was performed. Moreover, surgical site infections most often occur ≥ 4 days after 


surgery. Biliary leak can manifest with abdominal discomfort and fever, but jaundice, nausea, 
and vomiting are also typically seen. Both intraabdominal abscess and biliary leak can lead to 
secondary bacterial peritonitis, which can manifest with signs and symptoms of sepsis; however, 
peritoneal signs such as rebound tenderness and/or guarding are also expected. 
 
19. A 65-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 1-month history of persistent 
epigastric abdominal pain. She reports dull, aching pain that sometimes radiates to the back 
and wakes her up at night. She has had a 2-kg (4.4-lb) weight loss during this time. She has 
smoked a pack of cigarettes daily for the past 40 years. Her only medication is a calcium 
supplement. Her vital signs are within normal limits. She appears thin. Examination shows 
yellow discoloration of the sclera. Abdominal examination shows a nontender, enlarged 
gallbladder. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory studies 
show a total bilirubin of 9.8 mg/dL, direct bilirubin of 8.6 mg/dL, and an alkaline phosphatase 
of 560 IU/L. Abdominal ultrasonography shows dilation of the gallbladder and biliary and 
pancreatic ducts but no pancreatic or extrahepatic biliary lesions. Which of the following is 
the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: Although ultrasonography does not show a pancreatic lesion, a combination of obstructive 
jaundice (↑ ALP, conjugated hyperbilirubinemia) with nontender enlarged gallbladder 
(Courvoisier sign), worsening epigastric pain that radiates to the back, weight loss, and a double 
duct sign in a 65-year-old patient with a history of smoking is highly suggestive of carcinoma of 
the pancreatic head. 
 
Colonoscopy 
0% 
Colonoscopy is used to diagnose colon cancer, which would cause weight loss and abdominal 
pain. Smoking is a risk factor for colon cancer, and obstructive jaundice can occur in patients 
with liver metastasis. However, in the case of colon cancer, vague or diffuse abdominal pain is 
usually present, in contrast to this patient with epigastric pain, and dilation of the pancreatic 
ducts would not be expected. Instead, patients would have evidence of liver metastases on 
abdominal ultrasonography. 
 
Plain abdominal CT 
7% 
Pancreatic carcinoma is typically ill-defined and often has the same tissue density as the 
surrounding normal pancreatic tissue. Plain abdominal CT scans, therefore, have poor 
sensitivity and specificity for pancreatic carcinoma. 
 
Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT 
47% 
This was a challenging question! A contrast-enhanced abdominal CT is the investigation 
of choice to confirm pancreatic carcinoma and determine its resectability. On contrast 
CT, a pancreatic carcinoma typically appears as an ill-defined, hypodense mass (because 
it is poorly vascularized). If abdominal CT is inconclusive or shows a borderline 
resectable or unresectable tumor, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and EUS-guided 
biopsy should be performed to histologically confirm the diagnosis. If metastases are 
absent and the tumor is resectable, surgical resection should be performed (e.g., 
Whipple procedure for pancreatic head tumors), followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. 
Borderline resectable tumors are treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by 
resection. Most often, though, metastases are discovered and/or the tumor is 
unresectable. Such patients are typically treated palliatively or can join a clinical trial. 


This question is especially challenging because the patient's presentation resembles 
gallstone disease, which can also cause epigastric pain, obstructive jaundice, and 
dilation of both the biliary and pancreatic ducts if the stone is located near the ampulla of 
Vater. Also, such a stone may not be evident on ultrasound because ultrasonographic 
visualization of the most distal portions of the biliary tree is often not feasible. However, 
it is important to keep in mind that patients with gallstone disease will invariably have 
one or more of the following features on ultrasonography (especially in an exam 
question): thickening of walls of the biliary tree or gallbladder, pericystic fluid 
accumulation, scarring or shrinking of the gallbladder, and/or biliary sludge. Additionally, 
the epigastric pain is often worse after meals and does not radiate to the back. Lastly, 
Courvoisier sign usually makes gallstones an unlikely cause of biliary obstruction. 
 
Endoscopic ultrasonography 
4% 
In a patient with suspected pancreatic cancer, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and an EUS-
guided biopsy would be performed only if the most appropriate next step is inconclusive, or if it 
shows a borderline resectable or unresectable tumor. Upper GI endoscopy and endoscopic 
ultrasonography would be indicated in the initial workup of a patient with suspected gastric 
cancer, which would manifest with weight loss and epigastric pain. Smoking is a risk factor for 
gastric cancer, and obstructive jaundice can occur in patients with liver metastasis. However, 
dilation of the pancreatic ducts would not be expected. Instead, evidence of liver metastases 
would be present on abdominal ultrasound. 
 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography 
41% 
Although ERCP is not the most appropriate next step for this case, this was a good option to 
consider for two reasons: 
• First, duct brushing cytology performed during ERCP has a high sensitivity for pancreatic head 
tumors and was performed in the past to confirm the diagnosis. However, ERCP is invasive and 
cannot define the extent of the tumor, which is important for determining its resectability. ERCP 
is therefore no longer performed in the initial diagnostic workup of pancreatic carcinoma. 
• Second, after ultrasonography, some centers perform ERCP as the next step without obtaining 
any additional imaging if gallstone disease is suspected to be the underlying cause of biliary 
tract obstruction because the procedure is simultaneously diagnostic and therapeutic. Gallstone 
disease can cause epigastric pain, obstructive jaundice, and dilation of both the biliary and 
pancreatic ducts if the stone is located near the ampulla of Vater. Also, such a stone may not be 
evident on ultrasound because ultrasonographic visualization of the most distal portions of the 
biliary tree is often not feasible. However, it is important to keep in mind that patients with 
gallstone disease will invariably have one or more of the following features on ultrasonography 
(especially in an exam question): thickening of walls of the biliary tree or gallbladder, pericystic 
fluid accumulation, scarring or shrinking of the gallbladder, and/or biliary sludge. Additionally, the 
epigastric pain is often worse after meals and does not radiate to the back. Lastly, Courvoisier 
sign usually makes gallstones an unlikely cause of biliary obstruction. 
 
20. A 68-year-old woman comes to the physician because of increasing heartburn for the last 
few months. During this period, she has taken famotidine several times a day without relief 
and has lost 10 kg (22 lbs). She has retrosternal pressure and burning with every meal. She 
has had heartburn for several years and took famotidine as needed. She has hypertension. 
She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the last 40 years and drinks one glass of 
wine occasionally. Other current medications include amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide. 
She appears pale. Her height is 163 cm (5 ft 4 in), weight is 75 kg (165 lbs), and BMI is 28 


kg/m2. Her temperature is 37.2°C (99.0°F), pulse is 78/min, and blood pressure is 135/80 
mm Hg. Cardiovascular examination shows no abnormalities. Abdominal examination shows 
mild tenderness to palpation in the epigastric region. Bowel sounds are normal. The 
remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory studies show: 
 
Hemoglobin 
10.2 g/dL 
Mean corpuscular volume 
78 μm 
Mean corpuscular hemoglobin 
23 pg/cell 
Leukocyte count 
9500/mm3 
Platelet count 330,000/mm3 
Serum  
Na+ 
137 mEq/L 
K+ 
3.8 mEq/L 
Cl- 
100 mEq/L 
HCO3- 25 mEq/L 
Creatinine 
1.2 mg/dL 
Lactate dehydrogenase 
260 U/L 
Alanine aminotransferase 
18 U/L 
Aspartate aminotransferase 15 U/L 
Lipase 40 U/L (N < 280) 
Troponin I 
0.029 ng/mL 
 
An ECG shows normal sinus rhythm without ST-T changes. Which of the following is the most 
appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: Increasing retrosternal pain, weight loss, and anemia in this patient with long-standing reflux 
and a 40 pack-year smoking history raise suspicion for esophageal cancer. She has risk factors 
for both adenocarcinoma (gastroesophageal reflux, smoking) and squamous cell carcinoma 
(alcohol consumption, smoking) of the esophagus. 
 
24-hour esophageal pH monitoring 
4% 
Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring is used to confirm the diagnosis in patients with 
suspected nonerosive reflux disease. While this patient presents with retrosternal chest pain 
and a burning sensation with meals, suggesting acid reflux, the next step in management 
should rule out a potential malignancy. 
 
CT scan of the chest 
4% 
A CT scan of the chest is useful to visualize the entire thorax, including the lungs and the 
mediastinum. Although this patient presents with red flag symptoms of esophageal malignancy, 
a CT is more appropriate during the staging process after a malignancy has been confirmed. 
 
Trial of proton-pump inhibitor 
12% 
An empiric trial of proton-pump inhibitors may be administered if gastroesophageal reflux 
disease (GERD) is clinically suspected and there are no indications for further diagnostic 
testing. Although this patient presents with symptoms of heartburn that may suggest GERD, she 
also has alarm symptoms (e.g., weight loss, anemia) for esophageal cancer, which must be 
ruled out first. 
 


Esophageal manometry 
2% 
Esophageal manometry can be used to diagnose motor disorders of the esophagus, e.g., 
achalasia or esophageal spasms, which may also present with retrosternal pain and weight 
loss. Because this patient presents with additional alarm symptoms for esophageal malignancy, 
another diagnostic test is preferred. 
 
Barium swallow 
2% 
A barium swallow can be used to identify anatomical defects in the esophagus. It is indicated as 
the initial step in the evaluation of patients with features suggestive of proximal esophageal 
obstruction, as well as in patients with complicated esophageal strictures (secondary to 
surgery/radiation/caustic injuries) or with a suspected tracheoesophageal fistula. However, it is 
not typically considered the best initial step for the evaluation of dysphagia in patients with 
symptoms predominantly affecting the lower esophagus (e.g., retrosternal pain, heartburn). 
 
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy 
77% 
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is the best initial and confirmatory test for suspected 
esophageal cancer and can also be used to classify reflux esophagitis as well as to 
detect a peptic ulcer. It should be conducted in all patients presenting with symptoms of 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (e.g., retrosternal burning pain, regurgitation) and 
additional alarm symptoms (e.g., weight loss, anemia, melena, dysphagia). If a biopsy 
confirms esophageal cancer in this patient, further staging of the disease will include an 
endoscopic ultrasound to determine the infiltration depth and register regional lymph 
node disease as well as a chest and abdominal PET-CT. Treatment depends on the exact 
location of the tumor, histopathologic type (adenocarcinoma or squamous cell 
carcinoma), and the stage. 
 
21. A 42-year-old man with HIV infection comes to the physician because of several episodes of 
rectal bleeding over the past 2 weeks. He has had pain around the anal area for the past 
month. Six months ago, he was diagnosed with esophageal candidiasis and was treated 
with oral fluconazole. He has had 9 male sexual partners over his lifetime and uses 
condoms inconsistently. The patient's current medications include dolutegravir, tenofovir, 
and emtricitabine. He is 179 cm (5 ft 10 in) and weighs 66 kg (146 lb); BMI is 21 kg/m2. Vital 
signs are within normal limits. Digital rectal examination and anoscopy show a hard 2-cm 
mass palpable 0.5 cm above the anal verge that bleeds on contact. There is no inguinal 
lymphadenopathy. The abdomen is soft and nontender. The CD4+ T-lymphocyte count is 
95/mm3. A biopsy confirms the diagnosis. This patient is most likely to benefit from which of 
the following interventions? 
 
Tip: Anal canal cancer typically presents as an exophytic, hard anal mass that is often tender 
and bleeds easily. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the most common histological type of 
anal canal cancer (approx. 90% of cases) and it typically arises just above the anal verge and 
below the dentate line, which is located approx. 2 cm away from the anal verge. 
 
Radiochemotherapy 
31% 
The incidence of anal canal SCC is higher in individuals that are immunodeficient (e.g., 
due to HIV infection) and in men who have sex with men (MSM), such as this patient. The 
combination of chemotherapy and radiation is the treatment of choice for patients with 


anal canal SCC. Subsequent surgery is only indicated if a residual tumor is confirmed 
with biopsy after the completion of radiochemotherapy. 
 
Abdominoperineal resection 
9% 
Abdominoperineal resection (APR) was formerly the treatment of choice in patients with anal 
canal SCC. However, a less radical treatment option has been established that has been shown 
to have higher survival rates than APR. APR is indicated in patients with low-lying rectal 
adenocarcinomas that can not be treated with sphincter-sparing procedures and those with anal 
canal adenocarcinomas. Anal canal adenocarcinoma, however, is rare and arises above the 
dentate line. 
 
Topical trichloroacetic acid therapy 
10% 
Topical cytodestructive treatment with trichloroacetic acid is indicated in patients with anogenital 
warts (i.e., condylomata acuminata), for which HIV infection and unprotected sexual intercourse 
are risk factors. However, condylomata acuminata are usually asymptomatic. They are painful 
only in a small percentage of cases, and rectal bleeding is a rare sequela. Topical trichloroacetic 
acid therapy is not appropriate for the treatment of anal canal cancer. 
 
Total mesorectal excision 
25% 
Total mesorectal excision is usually performed in combination with low anterior resection in 
patients with rectal adenocarcinoma. However, the patient's tumor is just above the anal verge, 
within the anal canal, rather than the rectum. In addition, rectal adenocarcinoma is unlikely in a 
young patient without predisposing factors such as inflammatory bowel disease or a family 
history of colorectal cancer. 
 
Injection sclerotherapy 
5% 
Injection sclerotherapy is used in the treatment of patients with rectal prolapse. Rectal prolapse 
may present with an anal mass and possibly with bleeding, but the mass tends to be painless 
and typically exhibits radial (partial prolapse) or concentric (full-thickness prolapse) mucosal 
folds. Furthermore, the patient does not have fecal incontinence, which does occur in most 
patients with rectal prolapse, nor does he have predisposing factors for this condition such as 
elevated intraabdominal pressure (e.g., due to constipation or chronic cough) or weakness of 
the pelvic floor muscles (e.g., due to advanced age or previous perineal surgery). 
 
Submucosal hemorrhoidectomy 
20% 
Submucosal hemorrhoidectomy is indicated for the treatment of grade IV internal hemorrhoids 
and lower-grade internal hemorrhoids that are resistant to initial treatment. While internal 
hemorrhoids may present as an anal mass with bright red bleeding, digital rectal examination 
and anoscopy would reveal a mass arising above the dentate line rather than just above the 
anal verge. 
 
 
22. A 61-year-old woman with a history of stage IV pancreatic cancer comes to the emergency 
department with insomnia due to intractable midepigastric pain. The pain had been constant 
for months but has worsened over the past few weeks despite her taking hydrocodone 10 
mg and ibuprofen 400 mg. She has chronic pain and major depressive disorder. In the past 


month, she has been taking her pain medications with increasing frequency, going from 
twice a day to four times a day. Her other medications include venlafaxine and eszopiclone. 
She describes her mood as low without suicidal ideation. She appears fatigued and 
cachectic. Her temperature is 36°C (96.8°F), pulse is 100/min, and blood pressure is 128/65 
mm Hg. Physical examination shows a mass in the midepigastric region. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: This patient has chronic cancer pain that is not sufficiently controlled by her current 
analgesic regimen (as evidenced by insomnia and increasing frequency and total dose of pain 
medication). 
 
Discontinue hydrocodone and ibuprofen, and start IV ketorolac 
13% 
Discontinuing her current medications, which include an NSAID (ibuprofen), and starting a 
different NSAID (ketorolac) is not recommended. Her pain control regimen should be escalated 
according to the WHO analgesic ladder. 
 
Switch from hydrocodone to hydromorphone 
48% 
This patient's current pain medications (hydrocodone and ibuprofen) are not providing 
her with enough pain relief. A switch from hydrocodone to a stronger opioid (e.g., 
hydromorphone) is the appropriate next step according to the WHO analgesic ladder. 
When converting between opioids (opioid rotation), patients will likely have less 
tolerance to the new opioid than to their previous opioid (i.e., incomplete cross-
tolerance). Therefore, the new opioid should be given at a 25–50% lower dose, then 
adjusted according to the patient's pain score. Additionally, this patient should continue 
taking ibuprofen, as nonopioid analgesics should be used at each step of the ladder for 
effective and balanced pain relief. 
 
Administer regional block of the celiac plexus using lidocaine 
18% 
Although nerve blocks using local anesthetics (e.g., lidocaine) may relieve this patient's pain, 
there are other, less invasive, pharmacological regimens that should be tried first. 
 
Switch from eszopiclone to zolpidem 
3% 
Switching hypnotics (e.g., from eszopiclone to zolpidem) is not recommended, as this patient's 
insomnia is most likely due to her uncontrolled pain. 
 
Allow the patient to take hydrocodone and ibuprofen up to every four hours 
18% 
Increasing the frequency of this patient's current pain control regimen (hydrocodone and 
ibuprofen) would not be effective. Her current regimen should be escalated according to the 
WHO analgesic ladder. 
 
23. A 65-year-old man with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus is brought to the 
emergency department 20 minutes after the onset of severe anterior chest pain and 
shortness of breath. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 30 years. He appears 
distressed. His pulse is 116/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 156/88 mm 
Hg. Pulse oximetry on room air shows an oxygen saturation of 98%. A grade 3/6, high-


pitched, blowing, diastolic murmur is heard over the right upper sternal border. Which of the 
following is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms? 
 
Tip: Dyspnea with a high-pitched, blowing, diastolic murmur at the right upper sternal border 
suggests aortic regurgitation. 
 
Tear in the tunica intima 
67% 
An aortic dissection is typically caused by a tear in the tunica intima and subsequent 
longitudinal extension of the dissecting hematoma. Hypertension, which increases the 
risk of endothelial injury, is the most common predisposing factor for aortic dissection. 
Most aortic dissections begin in the ascending portion of the thoracic aorta because this 
is the region of maximum hydraulic stress. Patients present with sudden and severe pain 
in the chest or interscapular region. The pain can migrate as the dissection progresses. 
Proximal extension of the dissection into the aortic valve ring can cause acute aortic 
regurgitation (AR), as seen here. Other features of aortic dissection include syncope, 
diminished distal pulses, and asymmetrical blood pressure and pulse readings between 
limbs. Unlike the murmur of AR from aortic valve disease, which is prominent along the 
left sternal border, the murmur of AR from aortic dissection is prominent along the right 
sternal border. 
Nonmodifiable risk factors for aortic dissection include advanced age, male sex, and 
certain genetic conditions that weaken the tunica media (e.g., Marfan syndrome, vascular 
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Turner syndrome). 
 
Fibrofatty plaque in the aortic wall 
14% 
The formation of a fibrofatty plaque in the aortic wall is characteristic of atherosclerosis, which 
typically involves the abdominal portion of the descending aorta. Atherosclerosis is implicated in 
the formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms; atheroma ulceration has been reported in some 
patients with abdominal aortic dissections and descending thoracic aortic dissections. Although 
both aortic dissection and atherosclerosis share similar risk factors (e.g., smoking, hypertension, 
advanced age, and male sex), atherosclerosis is not a major risk factor for most aortic 
dissections, which tend to occur in the ascending aorta. 
 
Obstruction of the pulmonary arteries 
5% 
Obstruction of the pulmonary arteries is seen in pulmonary embolism, which can manifest with 
acute-onset dyspnea, chest pain, tachypnea, and tachycardia. However, pulmonary embolism 
would not explain the AR seen here. 
 
Rupture of a bulla in the lung 
1% 
Rupture of a bulla in the lung causes pneumothorax, which can manifest with dyspnea, chest 
pain, tachypnea, and tachycardia. However, pneumothorax would not explain the AR seen here. 
Instead, chest auscultation would reveal decreased breath sounds caused by pneumothorax. 
 
Perforation of the esophageal wall 
0% 
Esophageal rupture can manifest with chest pain, tachycardia, tachypnea, and dyspnea (due to 
mediastinitis and/or pleural effusion). However, esophageal rupture would not cause a murmur. 
Instead, chest auscultation might reveal a crunching sound over the precordium that is 


synchronous with each heartbeat (Hamman sign) due to a pneumomediastinum and/or 
decreased breath sounds due to a pleural effusion. Furthermore, esophageal rupture usually 
has a distinct precipitating cause (e.g., retching or forceful vomiting). 
 
Infarction of the ventricular wall 
13% 
Infarction of the ventricular wall (myocardial infarction) can cause acute-onset chest pain, 
dyspnea, tachypnea, tachycardia, and a murmur due to mitral regurgitation that is caused by 
papillary muscle rupture. However, the murmur due to mitral regurgitation is systolic rather than 
diastolic and heard best at the cardiac apex, not the right upper sternal border. Moreover, 
papillary muscle rupture typically occurs 2–7 days after infarction, not at the outset. 
 
24. Three days after being admitted to the hospital because of a fall from the roof of a two-story 
building, a 27-year-old man is being monitored in the intensive care unit. On arrival, the 
patient was somnolent and not oriented to person, place, or time. A CT scan of the head 
showed an epidural hemorrhage that was 45 cm3 in size and a midline shift of 7 mm; no 
skull fracture was shown. Emergency surgery was performed with craniotomy and 
hematoma evacuation on the day of admission. Perioperatively, a bleeding vessel was 
identified and ligated. Postoperatively, the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit 
and placed on a ventilator. His temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 67/min, and blood 
pressure is 117/78 mm Hg. The ventilator is set at a FiO2 of 55%, tidal volume of 520 mL, 
and positive end-expiratory pressure of 5.0 cm H2O. In addition to intravenous 
administration of fluids, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in managing 
this patient's nutrition? 
 
Tip: Nutritional support primarily depends on whether a patient is on ventilation (and, if so, for 
how long) and whether intestinal decompression is required. 
 
Oral feeding 
3% 
Oral feeding would be inappropriate because the patient is on mechanical ventilation with an 
endotracheal tube. He cannot ingest food by mouth. 
 
Total parenteral nutrition 
23% 
Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) via an intravenous line bypasses the gastrointestinal tract. The 
lack of intestinal stimulation increases the risk of intestinal atrophy, increases bowel wall 
permeability, and alters the gut flora, making TPN inferior to other feeding methods. TPN is only 
indicated in patients without a functioning gastrointestinal tract (e.g., short bowel syndrome, 
severe malabsorption) or when complete bowel rest is indicated (e.g., bowel obstruction). 
 
Keep patient NPO 
8% 
Nutritional support is indicated in critically ill patients with a low Glasgow coma scale who 
cannot be fed. Keeping the patient nil per os would only be indicated for the first 48 hours 
following surgery in case repeat surgery is necessary. 
 
Enteral feeding via nasogastric tube 
57% 
Critically ill patients with an intact gastrointestinal tract can receive short-term enteral feeding via 
nasogastric tube (< 2–3 weeks) if there are no contraindications (e.g., bowel obstruction, 


intractable vomiting, hemodynamic instability). Enteral feeding is preferred over parenteral 
nutrition because it stimulates intestinal motility and prevents mucosal atrophy. As long as there 
is no facial trauma or basilar skull fractures, a nasogastric tube can be used for enteral feeding. 
When feeding, patients should have their backrest elevated to prevent aspiration and reduce the 
incidence of nosocomial pneumonia. 
 
Enteral feeding using a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube 
9% 
A percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube would only be considered for long-term 
enteral feeding, as temporary routes such as nasogastric or nasoenteric tubes often fail with 
long-term use because of clogging and inadvertent dislodgement. However, for the short term, a 
PEG tube would be too invasive in a patient with a potentially reversible condition. 
 
25. A 33-year-old man comes to the physician because of right scrotal swelling for the past 2 
weeks. He has had mild lower abdominal discomfort for the past 3 weeks. There is no 
personal or family history of serious illness. He appears healthy. Vital signs are within 
normal limits. Examination shows gynecomastia. There is no inguinal lymphadenopathy. 
There is a firm nontender nodule over the right testicle. When a light is held behind the 
scrotum, it does not shine through. When the patient is asked to cough, the nodule does not 
cause a bulge. The abdomen is soft and nontender. The liver is palpated 2 cm below the 
right costal margin. Digital rectal examination is unremarkable. Serum alpha-fetoprotein, 
LDH, and hCG levels are markedly elevated. An x-ray of the chest shows no abnormalities. 
Ultrasound of the testis shows a cystic 3-cm mass with variable echogenicity. A CT of the 
abdomen shows multiple hypoattenuating lesions on the liver and retroperitoneal lymph 
nodes. Radical inguinal orchiectomy with retroperitoneal lymph node dissection is 
performed. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management? 
 
Tip: A nonhomogenous, cystic testicular mass with a negative transillumination test and multiple 
hepatic and lymphatic lesions is highly suggestive of metastatic testicular carcinoma. 
Extranodal/distant metastases at the time of presentation and increased alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) 
levels make a nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (NSGCT) the most likely type of tumor in this 
patient. 
 
Radiation therapy 
26% 
External beam radiation is used to clear the retroperitoneal lymph nodes off of micro-
/macrometastases in early stage (I, IIA, IIB) seminomatous germ cell tumors, which are 
extremely radiosensitive. However, radiation therapy is generally not used in the treatment of 
NSGCTs because these tumors are comparatively radioresistant. The only indication for 
radiation therapy in patients with a NSGCT is brain metastases (e.g., whole brain irradiation). 
 
Cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin therapy 
44% 
Adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin (BEP regimen) can be 
considered in stage I nonseminoma in select patients and is usually indicated in stages II 
and III. This patient has signs of advanced NSGCT with metastases to his liver and 
increased tumor markers (stage IIIC). In addition to the radical inguinal orchiectomy, he 
would likely require 4 cycles of this regimen due to the advanced nature of his cancer. 
Patients with nonseminomas have a significantly poorer prognosis than patients with 
seminomas, but still an excellent overall survival rate. 
 


Leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin therapy 
20% 
The combination of leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) is used for the 
treatment of colorectal cancer. It is not used for testicular cancer. 
 
Active surveillance 
10% 
After an inguinal orchiectomy, active surveillance consisting of regular follow-up exams, serial 
monitoring of tumor markers, and imaging (abdominal and pelvic CT, chest x-ray) may be 
indicated in select patients with early-stage (IA, IB) nonseminomatous germ cell tumors 
(NSGCTs) without elevated tumor markers. However, any NSGCT of stage II and above or any 
NSGCT with elevated tumor markers requires a specific form of adjuvant therapy after 
orchiectomy. 
 
Stem cell transplant 
0% 
A peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is indicated for patients who require high-dose 
chemotherapy, which has a myeloablative effect. However, high-dose chemotherapy is preferred 
in testicular cancer over conventional chemotherapy only in patients with an incomplete 
response or recurrent disease following the first-line of adjuvant therapy. Stem cell 
transplantation is not required following the conventional first-line adjuvant therapy. 
 
 
 
